{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green24\blue23;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12157\c11765;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15880\viewh14660\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Referee #1 (Remarks to the Author):\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Thank you for the revision, I am happy with all changes and I do not have any further comments.\cb1 \
\
\
\cb3 Referee #3 (Remarks to the Author):\cb1 \
\
\cb3 The paper has been\'a0\cb1 revise\cb3 d with care (thanks!). I am convinced that the paper is correct. I still have quite a few comments, but all except two of them are very minor and of stylistic nature, and I think that the two non-minor ones can be addressed rather easily. Up to these changes, I strongly recommend acceptance.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 ----------------------------- Main comments\cb1 \
\
\cb3 268: It sounds a bit strange; ribbon graphs are actually not graphs. Furthermore, data structures for ribbon graphs are not described; please provide details. My understanding is that you record, for each ribbon, the ordering of the edges crossing the ribbon, and at each vertex region you record the cyclic ordering of the intersections of the curves you consider with each boundary of the region; thus, ignoring the precise arrangement of the curves inside each vertex region. Details on how you use this data structure could be useful, e.g. on lines 500 and 1000.\
\
	Jeff: Added comment to clean up.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 295: What is a set of non-crossing weakly simple cycles? I think you do not mean "pairwise non-crossing", but you mean that there exists a perturbation of all the cycles so that they become disjoint? There may be an ambiguity on this concept throughout the paper; please check.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 	Jeff: Added comment with draft text.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 ----------------------------- Minor comments\cb1 \
\
\cb3 39: The expression "disconnected subcomplexes" is strange. First, they are not necessarily disconnected. Second, the term "subcomplexes" is not defined. Why not "surfaces with boundary" instead of "disconnected subcomplexes"?\cb1 \
\
Response: In fact, they are disconnected (or it is not a cut).  We also feel \'93subcomplexes\'94 is fairly standard and well understood.\
\
\cb3 Response: Sequences are intrinsically ordered, so we are uncomfortable with this wording.  While vague, we feel \'93pattern\'94 captures the idea better, especially in an introduction section, and the ideas are made more precise later in the paper in any case.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 222: If g=0, the surface is necessarily orientable.\
\
	Fixed\cb1 \
\
\cb3 224: Your definition of an embedding is intuitive, but not formally correct (the relative interiors of paths must avoid the images of vertices; there is a condition on the endpoints of the paths). I think it is fine to skip the details, provided you indicate that this is an informal definition.\
\
	Jeff: Added \'93that intersect vertices only at their endpoints\'94\cb1 \
\
\cb3 265: I think that cross-metric surfaces would be completely appropriate for your purposes, but indeed your ribbon graph structure does the job.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 347: Perhaps indicate "two disjoint (possibly non-connected) subsets".\
\
Response: done\cb1 \
\
\cb3 383: refer already to Figure 3.1.\
\
Response: done\cb1 \
\
\cb3 389: Have you defined delta_i^* above? If so, I have forgotten.\
\
Response: We were first defining it here. However, we never use the notation later, so we have removed it.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 422: Since the surface is allowed to be non-orientable (see line 356), you also need to consider crosscaps. Actually, perhaps just removing the sentence would be better.\
\
Response: Instead of mentioning handles, the second case now states we reduce the genus.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 574: "intuitively establishes" sounds weird.\
\
Response: Agreed - we have removed the word intuitively.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 811: "we look for" should be "we look for a"\
\
Response: done\cb1 \
\
\cb3 867: I think this is correct, but I got confused a bit. Perhaps it would help if you would make it explicit that a cut is the same as the primal of an even subgraph.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 877: Explain that H is a graph in the homology class you are considering.  FIXED.\cb1 \
 \
\cb3 887: Explain that you will use Lemma 6.2 in the following lemma.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 913: Refer to Lemma 6.2, which you are indeed using.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 Caption of Figure 6.1: It would help to mention that the cost of each red edge is c(uv)/6.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 983: I think H should be H'.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 1000: Shouldn't the complexity be O(gn)? Again, this depends on your data structure, and it would be better to be more explicit. Similarly, on line 1001, isn't the number of vertices O(gn)? (This doesn't affect the rest anyway.)\cb1 \
\
\cb3 1006: I think that you are using a slight extension of Lemma 7.2, because you are using it with several disjoint shortest paths. It is clear that the proof of Lemma 7.2 extends to this case.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 1066: Replacing the semicolon with a period would help the reader understand where your "Otherwise..." reasoning ends.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 1069: The "without loss of generality" looks slightly abusive, because X satisfies a property that X' does not need to satisfy (a priori), namely, that the component of Sigma \\ X not incident to s^* is not a disk. I think it would be better to be explicit, although I believe the proof is correct.\cb1 \
\
\cb3 1070: "it follow" should be "it follows".  FIXED\cb1 \
\
\cb3 1090, 1094: "on an" should be "on a".  FIXED.}